18
// story start 
@Description
It is a dark autumn night in the village of Torlynn.
Outside, freezing wind rips the last leaves from the
trees and splatter falling raindrops against the
windows. Only the fire blazing in the nearby
fireplace keeps you warm on this stormy night.
A short, heavy man enters the room. He has a thick
mustache and a silver-rimmed monocle in his eye.
With a grunt, he drops into a chair and politely
smiles at your company.
@connection
1

+
// meeting with town mayor
@Description
" Hello. my friends." he says very seriously. "Thank
you for corning on this awful night. I have called you
here because the people of Torlynn have need of
brave heroes such as yourselves.
"In the mountains above the town is an old iron
mine. It was dug long ago by a clan of dwarves. They
took out all of the iron there and then moved on to
other places to look for more.
" Over the past few weeks. reports have come to
me of strange lights and sounds coming from the old
mine. The people are scared and worried. Please go
to the mine and explore it. Find out if there is
something wrong there or if these reports are
nothing but the wild dreams of fools." 
@connection
2

+
// dungeon start
@Description
You stand just inside a rough cavern. cut from the
stone of the mountain long ago by dwarvish hands.
This is the entrance to the mine. Behind you. a cold
wind blows as if it would push you into the unknown.
There is only one way to go now: forward and into
the darkness of the mine. Gathering your courage
and checking your weapons. you start down into the
mine shaft. 
@connection
3

+
//room 1 Tunnel
@Description
The sound of the wind fades away as you move
into the mine. The air in here is cool and wet so that
it feels as if you are walking through thick fog. 
@connection
2,4

+
//room 2 the first lair (goblin and kobold in this room)
@Description
As you open the door to this room. a horrible smell
fills your noses. The floor of this rough cave is
covered with trash. and flies buzz in the air. Several
furs have been placed on the floor here. clearly to be
used as beds. As a matter of fact. two of the beds are
in use, and a pair of monsters jumps out of them as
you enter. One is a goblin and the other is a kobold.
They hiss at you and attack! 
@connection
3,5

+
// room 3 jagged cavern (possible wandering monster)
@Description
This is a narrow cavern cut through the stone.
Small pools of water are spread across the floor. The
occasional drip and splash of water dripping from
the walls and ceiling echoes in the air. 
@connection
4,6,7,8,9

+
// room 4 orc lair (orc monster in this room hidden gold)
@Description
 The air in this small room is thick with the smell of
rotting meat. A pile of bones stands in the corner. An
ore has claimed this place as its lair. When it sees
you. it roars and attacks! 
@connection
5

+
// room 5 trapped room (fire trap in this room ) 
@Description
This small room is empty and has a funny, bitter
smell to it. The walls and floor are covered with black
ash or soot. A steel door with an iron ring for a
handle has been set in the middle of the floor. There
is no lock on the door. 
@connection
5

+
// room 6 gnoll lair (gnoll in this room) 
@Description
As you open the door to this room . a number of
small insects buzz past you. Inside. you see that the
air is dotted with dozens of biting flies. A large. evil
creature sits on the floor. sharpening a curved
sword. When it sees you. it cracks an ugly smile and
jumps to its feet. 
@connection
5


+
// room 7 broken room (possible wandering monster)
@Description
This large chamber was cut from the stone long
ago. In the ages since then. the walls have cracked
and split. Large blocks of stone have fallen from the
walls and ceiling. and they litter the floor. The
gleaming eyes of unknown rodents peak out of
cracks in the walls from time to time.
@connection
5,10

+
// room 8 narrow tunnel orc
@Description
This is a short. narrow tunnel with a very smooth
floor. The cool. damp air in here has a strange.
metallic odor to it. 

Suddenly. the door at the end of the hall swings
open and a foul looking creature steps into sight. As
he sees you. a cruel snarl spreads across his ugly
face. He lifts a gleaming black axe that was strapped
to his back and starts to march toward you. 
@connection
9,11


+
// room 9 story room ( lore check required dc 15 to succeed show bracketed)
@Description
This is a large chamber that has been polished
smooth. Ancient dwarvish letters. called runes. have
been carved into the walls. There is a feeling of great
age to this place and a sense of wonder seems to
hang in the air.
 
you look at the runes you feel that you have
seen these before, in the books your brother showed
you when you where young. after a while you piece together
what theses ruins are saying.

These runes tell the story of the digging of this
mine and the work that the dwarves did here. Near
the end. it mentions that the dwarves found a vein of
glowing iron unlike anything they had seen before.
They mined the strange ore. which they called
eisenmond (i-sen-mond) and found they could make
weapons of great magic out of it.
As they mined for more eisenmond. they
discovered some dark and evil secret about the
mountain. Unfortunately, the runes don 't say what
the evil secret was. However. the dwarves packed up
their things and left overnight.
The story ends by saying that the dwarves left
behind one large nugget of eisenmond which glowed
brighter than the rest. This nugget seems to have
been left in the care of someone called the "Stone
King." It is the key to the secret of the mountain-this
must be what Gustovan sent you here to find! 
@connection
10,12

+
// room 10 the iron mine goblin kobold or gnoll orc  
@Description
This vast chamber has been roughly carved and
worked. Small veins of iron ore still line the walls.
showing that this was the heart of the ancient
dwarven mine. Four monsters are working in here
when you enter. They howl with rage when they see
you and attack.
@connection
11,13

+
// room 11 tunnel of death ( trap in this room ) 
@Description
This is a fairly smooth and straight tunnel. Here
and there. the floor is marked with the dark stains of
dried blood! Something inside tells you to be very
careful in here! 
@connection
12,14

+
// room 12 mysterious fountain ( healing fountain in this room )( hidden door in this room)
(trap on door in this room) 
@Description
In the center of this room , which has a smooth
floor and rough walls, is a stone fountain . The
fountain has been carved in the image of a large
dragon that coils around itself and sprays water out
of its mouth. The water lands in a polished stone
pool that has been cut into the floor around the
statue. The air in here is sweet with the smell of fresh
water

Looking around this room. you see that there are
no more doors. This looks like the end of the mine.
but it can't be. You haven't found the Stone King or
the large lump of eisenmond. There must be a secret
door somewhere in this room. 

looking around, your eyes are drawn to the northeastern
corner of the room you don't quite know why but theres 
somthing odd going on there. as you approach the corner 
you can feel a slight brease. you know now this has to be


way forward 

@connection
13,15


+
//room 13 sloping passage 
@Description
 This tunnel has been cut downward at a sharp
angle. Walking down it is very dangerous. requiring
great care. The walls and floor are rough and
broken. less well traveled than the rest of the mine. 
@connection
16

+
//room 14 the elsenmond mine
@Description
 This is a rough stone chamber that appears to have
been one of the most ancient mines of the dwarves.
Flakes of a mysterious glowing ore flicker in the
walls. floor, and ceiling. Although there is not enough
of this unusual metal to be worth anything. it makes
the dark walls of the room shimmer like a starry
night.

In the center of this room is a short statue carved
from a single block of granite. The statue is a dwarf
with a pick and other mining equipment. Someone
has ruined the statue by breaking off the head and
tossing it in the corner. A rusty crown, fashioned
from iron long ago, rests atop the statue's head. The
statue's hands are open and held out. as if it had
been holding something.
The statue sits on a small pedestal that appears to
be made of several slabs of stone, glued together. 

you get to work finding the pieces of statue 
scattered about the room and assembling the statue.

As soon as the statue is assemble, a strange light
fills the room. The stone body of the statue glows
and the mouth moves slowly. In a voice as deep and
old as the mountain around you. the statue speaks:
"Though we left this place long ago, the spirit of
the dwarves remains. This place is ours. It was built
by our hands and dedicated to the blood of those
who died here. It is good that you have come. for a
great evil has tainted the spirit of this place. The
priceless magical stone. called the Eisenkern. has
been stolen. When it was taken. the power to trap
the beast that lives at the heart of this mountain was
taken also. If the Eisenkern is not returned to this
place, that terrible beast will be freed and a horrible
evil will come upon all who dwell in these lands!" 
@connection
17

+
{ adventure ends return to town }
@Description
Gustovan listens carefully to your story. He seems
troubled by it. After you finish talking, he begins to
pace around the room. He says, " Clearly, these are
dark times for our people. Whatever the evil that the
dwarves found in the mountain. it must not be set
free. If it is so great and powerful that the dwarves
fled because of it. Torlynn would be at its mercy. I
must give this matter careful thought." 


to be continued